Harmonize PodPreset examples (#18128)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/inject-data-application/podpreset.md

---
reviewers:
- jessfraz

> title: Inject Information into Pods Using a Pod Preset

Reviewer: I'd leave the original title

Author: I accepted this change in one of the last commits

content_template: templates/task
weight: 60

> ---

Reviewer: Since you're tidying this page, would you be willing to add `min-kubernetes-server-version` to the front matter?
See https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/19265/ for an example of someone doing this.

Author: I added the server-version

{{% capture overview %}}

> This page shows how to use Pod Presets to inject information like secrets, volume mounts, and environment variables into Pods at creation time.

Reviewer: I prefer PodPreset (if it means the object) written without a space, the same way it appears in a manifest.
With a space, I'd write it as “a Pod preset”.

Reviewer: (you can use both of the ways I'm suggesting, but “Pod Preset” isn't right).

Reviewer 2: @tom1299 , I agree with @sftim .
I find the term `Pod preset` to be confusing (https://www.ahdictionary.com/word/search.html?q=preset) especially when the resource is called PodPreset.

Also, should these changes appear on the `dev-1.18` branch or `master`?

Author: > I prefer PodPreset (if it means the object) written without a space, the same way it appears in a manifest.
> With a space, I'd write it as “a Pod preset”.

That does indeed make sense. I altered the document following that rationale.

Author: > @tom1299 , I agree with @sftim .
> I find the term `Pod preset` to be confusing (https://www.ahdictionary.com/word/search.html?q=preset) especially when the resource is called PodPreset.
> 
> Also, should these changes appear on the `dev-1.18` branch or `master`?

I tried to make the wording clearer in my last commits. Could you please take a look at the cahnges I pusehd ?
Regarding the branch; I was asked to base all of my last pull requests on the dev branch, so I did the same for this pull request. But it's no problem to target the master branch.

Author: @kbhawkey @sftim I would ask you for some advice on the branch issues since I do not know which would be correct.

> This page shows how to use Pod presets to inject information like secrets, volume mounts, and environment variables into Pods at creation time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page shows how to use PodPreset objects to inject information like Secrets, volume mounts, and environment variables into Pods at creation time.
```
?

Author: Using `PodPreset objects` makes it clear that the k8s entities are meant. I think that wording is very good.

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you haven't used a PodPreset already, take a quick look at
```
?
(not sure about “quick”; what I want to say is that since this is a tutorial-style task it's OK for the reader to glance through and then come back even if they don't understand everything they have seen).

Also, do readers need to know what Pods are?

Author: I was scanning through the other pages in the `tasks` section of the documentation and most of them do not contain any links to the concepts they cover. So I was thinking about removing that sentence altogether.

Reviewer: That works too!

reviewers:
- jessfraz
title: Inject Information into Pods Using a PodPreset
min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.10
content_template: templates/task
weight: 60
---

{{% capture overview %}}

> This page shows how to use PodPreset objects to inject information like Secrets, volume mounts, and environment variables into Pods at creation time.

Author: :+1:

## Pod spec with ConfigMap example

This is an example to show how a Pod spec is modified by a Pod preset
that references a ConfigMap containing environment variables.

Here is the manifest containing the definition of the ConfigMap:

{{< codenew file="podpreset/configmap.yaml" >}}

Create the ConfigMap:

```shell
kubectl create -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/configmap.yaml
```

Here is a PodPreset manifest referencing that ConfigMap:

{{< codenew file="podpreset/allow-db.yaml" >}}

Create a preset that references the ConfigMap:

```shell
kubectl create -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/allow-db.yaml
```

The following manifest defines a Pod matching the PodPreset for this example:

{{< codenew file="podpreset/pod.yaml" >}}

Create the Pod:

```shell
kubectl create -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/pod.yaml
```

View the Pod spec altered by the admission controller in order to see the effects of the preset
having been applied:

```shell
kubectl get pod website -o yaml
```

{{< codenew file="podpreset/allow-db-merged.yaml" >}}

The `DB_PORT` environment variable and the `podpreset.admission.kubernetes.io` annotation of the Pod
verify that the preset has been applied.

> ## ReplicaSet with Pod Spec example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## ReplicaSet with Pod spec example
```
?

This is an example to show that only Pod specs are modified by Pod presets. Other workload types 
like ReplicaSets or Deployments are unaffected.

Here is the manifest for the PodPreset for this example:

{{< codenew file="podpreset/preset.yaml" >}}

Create the preset:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/preset.yaml
```

This manifest defines a ReplicaSet that manages three application Pods:

{{< codenew file="podpreset/replicaset.yaml" >}}

Create the ReplicaSet:

```shell
kubectl create -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/replicaset.yaml
```

Verify that the Pods created by the ReplicaSet are running:

```shell
kubectl get pods
```

The output shows that the Pods are running:

```
NAME             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
frontend-2l94q   1/1     Running   0          2m18s
frontend-6vdgn   1/1     Running   0          2m18s
frontend-jzt4p   1/1     Running   0          2m18s
```

> View the spec of the ReplicaSet:

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
View the `spec` of the ReplicaSet:
```

annotations of the Pod verify that both presets have been applied.

## Conflict example

This is an example to show how a Pod spec is not modified by a Pod preset when there is a conflict.
The conflict in this example consists of a `VolumeMount` in the PodPreset conflicting with a Pod that defines the same `mountPath`.

Here is the manifest for the PodPreset:

{{< codenew file="podpreset/conflict-preset.yaml" >}}

Note the `mountPath` value of `/cache`.

Create the preset:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/conflict-preset.yaml
```

Here is the manifest for the Pod:

{{< codenew file="podpreset/conflict-pod.yaml" >}}

Note the volumeMount element with the same path as in the PodPreset.

Create the Pod:

```shell
kubectl create -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/conflict-pod.yaml
```

View the Pod spec:

```shell
kubectl get pod website -o yaml
```

{{< codenew file="podpreset/conflict-pod.yaml" >}}

You can see there is no preset annotation (`podpreset.admission.kubernetes.io`). Seeing no annotation tells you that no preset has not been applied to the Pod.

> However a warning is logged by the PodPreset admission controller containing details of the conflict.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the
[PodPreset admission controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#podpreset)
logs a warning containing details of the conflict.
```

reviewers:
- jessfraz
title: Inject Information into Pods Using a PodPreset
min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.10
content_template: templates/task
weight: 60
---

{{% capture overview %}}

> This page shows how to use PodPreset objects to inject information like {{< glossary_tooltip text="Secrets" term_id="secret" >}}, volume mounts, and {< glossary_tooltip text="environment variables" term_id="container-env-variables" >}} into Pods at creation time.

Reviewer: One thing to fix:
```suggestion
This page shows how to use PodPreset objects to inject information like {{< glossary_tooltip text="Secrets" term_id="secret" >}}, volume mounts, and {{< glossary_tooltip text="environment variables" term_id="container-env-variables" >}} into Pods at creation time.
```

(might have been my typo originally, sorry)

{{% capture overview %}}

> This page shows how to use Pod Presets to inject information like secrets, volume mounts, and environment variables into Pods at creation time.

Reviewer 2: Hello @tom1299 .
I am wondering about the use of Pod Preset versus PodPreset throughout the page.

Author: Actually that was one of the points I was not sure of. In the [concepts page](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/podpreset/) "PodPreset" and "Pod Preset" are used interchangeably. And I am struggling to see the rule when to use which.

Author: I updated the page so that it now contains only "Pod Prese" (with a space). I also changed it in the title so that reflects the corresponding "concepts" page. Could you please take a look at it ?

{{% capture steps %}}

## Use Pod presets to inject environment variables and volumes

> In this exercise, you create a Pod preset that has one environment variable and a volume mount.

Reviewer: I'd write this as:
```suggestion
In this step, you create a preset that has a volume mount and one environment variable.
```

> Here is the configuration file for the PodPreset:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the manifest for the PodPreset:
```

{{< codenew file="podpreset/preset.yaml" >}}

> In the configuration file, you can see that the preset has an environment variable definition called `DB_PORT`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the manifest, you can see that the preset has an environment variable definition called `DB_PORT`
```

> and a volume mount definition called `cache-volume` which is mounted under `/cache`. The `selector` specifies that

Reviewer: Optionally: use a glossary tooltip for “selector”: `{{< glossary_tooltip text="selector" term_id="selector" >}}`

Author: Tooltip has been added

the preset will act upon any Pod that is labeled `role:frontend`.

> Create the preset:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the PodPreset:
```

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/preset.yaml
```

> Verify that PodPreset has been created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that the PodPreset has been created:
```

```shell
kubectl get podpreset
```
```
NAME             CREATED AT
allow-database   2020-01-24T08:54:29Z
```

> Here is the configuration file containing the definition of an applicable Pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This manifest defines a Pod labelled `role: frontend` (matching the PodPreset's selector):
```

Author: That makes the intend of the example more obvious. Thanks for your suggestion

{{< codenew file="podpreset/pod.yaml" >}}

Create the Pod:

```shell
kubectl create -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/pod.yaml
```

Verify that the Pod is running:

```shell
kubectl get pods
```

The output shows that the Pod is running:

```
NAME      READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
website   1/1       Running   0          4m
```

View the Pod spec altered by the admission controller in order to see the effects of the preset
having been applied:

```shell
kubectl get pod website -o yaml
```

{{< codenew file="podpreset/merged.yaml" >}}

The `DB_PORT` environment variable, the `volumeMount` and the `podpreset.admission.kubernetes.io` annotation
of the Pod verify that the preset has been applied.

## Pod spec with ConfigMap example

This is an example to show how a Pod spec is modified by a Pod preset
that references a ConfigMap containing environment variables.

Here is the configuration file containing the definition of the ConfigMap:

{{< codenew file="podpreset/configmap.yaml" >}}

Create the ConfigMap:

```shell
kubectl create -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/configmap.yaml
```

> Here is the PodPreset configuration file referencing the ConfigMap:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a PodPreset manifest referencing that ConfigMap:
```
?

{{< codenew file="podpreset/allow-db.yaml" >}}

> Create the preset that references the ConfigMap:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a preset that references the ConfigMap:
```

```shell
kubectl create -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/allow-db.yaml
```

> And the configuration file containing the definition of an applicable Pod looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following manifest defines a Pod matching the PodPreset for this example:
```
?

Author: Your suggestion actually is easier to read and understand.

{{< codenew file="podpreset/pod.yaml" >}}

Create the Pod:

```shell
kubectl create -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/pod.yaml
```

View the Pod spec altered by the admission controller in order to see the effects of the preset
having been applied:

```shell
kubectl get pod website -o yaml
```

{{< codenew file="podpreset/allow-db-merged.yaml" >}}

The `DB_PORT` environment variable and the `podpreset.admission.kubernetes.io` annotation of the Pod
verify that the preset has been applied.

## ReplicaSet with Pod Spec example

This is an example to show that only Pod specs are modified by Pod presets. Other workload types 
like ReplicaSets or Deployments are unaffected.

Here is the PodPreset configuration file for this example:

{{< codenew file="podpreset/preset.yaml" >}}

Create the preset:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/preset.yaml
```

Here is the configuration file containing the definition of a ReplicaSet whose deployment will result

> in the creation of three Pods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This manifest defines a ReplicaSet that manages three application Pods:
```
(avoiding “deployment” which could confuse a reader)

Author: In addition it is inline with the wording from the ReplicaSet page. Thank you for your suggestion

{{< codenew file="podpreset/replicaset.yaml" >}}

Create the ReplicaSet:

```shell
kubectl create -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/replicaset.yaml
```

Verify that the Pods created by the ReplicaSet are running:

```shell
kubectl get pods
```

The output shows that the Pods are running:

```
NAME             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
frontend-2l94q   1/1     Running   0          2m18s
frontend-6vdgn   1/1     Running   0          2m18s
frontend-jzt4p   1/1     Running   0          2m18s
```

View the spec of the ReplicaSet:

```shell
kubectl get replicasets frontend -o yaml
```

Note that the ReplicaSet spec was not changed nor does it contain a
`podpreset.admission.kubernetes.io` annotation.

> To see the effects of the preset having been applied, individual Pods need to be examined.

Reviewer: I'd use a note shortcode; for example:
```suggestion
{{< note >}}
The ReplicaSet object's `spec` was not changed, nor does the ReplicaSet contain a
`podpreset.admission.kubernetes.io` annotation. This is because a PodPreset only
applies to Pod objects.

To see the effects of the preset having been applied, you need to look at individual Pods.
{{< /note >}}
```

The command to view the specs of the affected Pods is:

```shell
kubectl get pod --selector=role=frontend -o yaml
```

{{< codenew file="podpreset/replicaset-merged.yaml" >}}

Again the `podpreset.admission.kubernetes.io` annotation of the Pods
verifies that the preset has been applied.

## Multiple Pod presets example

This is an example to show how a Pod spec is modified by multiple Pod presets.

Here is the configuration file for the first PodPreset:

{{< codenew file="podpreset/preset.yaml" >}}

> Create the first preset:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the first PodPreset for this example:
```

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/preset.yaml
```

> Here is the configuration file for the second PodPreset:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the manifest for the second PodPreset for this example:
```

{{< codenew file="podpreset/proxy.yaml" >}}

Create the second preset:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/proxy.yaml
```

> And the configuration file containing the definition of an applicable Pod looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a manifest containing the definition of an applicable Pod (matched by two PodPresets):
```

{{< codenew file="podpreset/pod.yaml" >}}

Create the Pod:

```shell
kubectl create -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/pod.yaml
```

View the Pod spec altered by the admission controller in order to see the effects of both presets
having been applied:

```shell
kubectl get pod website -o yaml
```

{{< codenew file="podpreset/multi-merged.yaml" >}}

The `DB_PORT` environment variable, the `proxy-volume` VolumeMount and the two `podpreset.admission.kubernetes.io`
annotations of the Pod verify that both presets have been applied.

## Conflict example

This is an example to show how a Pod spec is not modified by a Pod preset when there is a conflict.

> The conflict in this example consists of a VolumeMount in the PodPreset and the Pod itself with the same mountPath.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The conflict in this example consists of a `VolumeMount` in the PodPreset conflicting with a Pod that defines the same `mountPath`.
```

> Here is the configuration file for the PodPreset:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the manifest for the PodPreset:
```

{{< codenew file="podpreset/conflict-preset.yaml" >}}

Note the `mountPath` value of `/cache`.

Create the preset:

```shell
kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/conflict-preset.yaml
```

Here is the configuration file for the Pod:

{{< codenew file="podpreset/conflict-pod.yaml" >}}

Note the volumeMount element with the same path as in the PodPreset.

Create the Pod:

```shell
kubectl create -f https://k8s.io/examples/podpreset/conflict-pod.yaml
```

View the Pod spec:

```shell
kubectl get pod website -o yaml
```

{{< codenew file="podpreset/conflict-pod.yaml" >}}

> Note the absence of the preset annotations which indicates that the preset has not been applied to the Pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see there is no preset annotation (`podpreset.admission.kubernetes.io`). Seeing no annotation tells you that no preset has not been applied to the Pod.
```

However a warning is logged by the PodPreset admission controller containing details of the conflict.

> The following command can be used to view the warning:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view the warning using `kubectl`:
```

```shell
kubectl -n kube-system logs -l=component=kube-apiserver
```

> The output should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output should look similar to:
```
